this video partly presents a set of
totally autobiographical and personal
reflections and it's partly making a
broader political point or at least
raising a question I've never really
heard anyone else raise our people maybe
becoming a little bit more racist and a
little bit more credulous in relation to
the seemingly magical significance of
DNA ancestry and bloodlines because on
the one hand people are having smaller
and smaller families they have fewer
brothers and sisters they can compare
themselves to and on the other hand we
have the progress of DNA technology
being available to the general public
people can now send their drop of blood
to a laboratory and be told all these
magical mysterious things about their
thought their past in the long term I
think these are really powerful forces
shaping self perception and the
political conception of bloodline
lineage so on and so forth simply having
fewer brothers and sisters it would be
difficult to exaggerate the impact that
has on on Western culture I've known a
couple of people in my life who like
myself had parents with gave birth to
conceived an enormous number of children
my father at nine kids and when your
father has nine kids you grow up
constantly confronted with both the
meaningfulness and the meaninglessness
of DNA of shared ancestry shared
heredity what have you so when I
encountered someone like Isaac Isaac as
a youtuber as YouTube names ask yourself
when I encounter someone like Isaac who
was for about two years
sincerely fascinated by different kind
of racist theories of DNA and IQ the
theories about how racial groupings
reflect different levels of intelligence
and you know I'm not insulting him here
I'm just saying he filmed this
Durer fascinating he found this way of
thinking fascinating and he come on his
discord again this one on for about two
years there were hundreds of witnesses
thousands of witnesses because these
were large discussions involving large
numbers of people he would come on and
he would he would denounce people who
disagreed with him as quote-unquote
biology deniers
I think only only neo-nazi see it's that
kind of verbiage and a lot of people
took him aside and said look Isaac you
think about delve it's like you're
picking up some some key terms here from
the kind of fascist fringes of the
political spectrum other people just
don't talk this way about the
relationship between DNA and and
intelligence
so for kid like him he comes on the
internet and he encounters this sort of
fully fledged discourse about race and
the heredity of intelligence and some of
it seems at least at first glance
academically respectable and he's not
really reading the books he's not really
doing research into this in a deep way
he's responding primarily to YouTube
videos about it and his own kind of
logical free association so his his
point about being a quote/unquote how
would you deny er was as follows he'd
claim look you know height and athletic
ability all these things all these
genetic predispositions they're not
equally distributed around the globe so
therefore if you dogmatically assert
that intelligence is equally or randomly
distributed around the globe then you're
you're in denial about biology now of
course this is linked to a philosophy
that is in my opinion overtly racist and
racialist
but there's an implicit contrast here
just to being someone who grew up with
eight brothers and sisters who have
nothing in common with you and who above
all else do not share the same level of
intelligence and do not share the same
type of intelligence with you do you
have the same kinds
of affinities and interests and talents
that you do so even my my brothers and
sisters who are my my half-brothers and
half-sisters and normally don't refer to
massage but these are children my father
had with women other my mother I have
more in common with them genetically
then I could ever possibly have with
someone else who shares the ethnic
category of Jewish I have infinitely
more in common with my half-brother any
one of them then I could ever have in
common with somebody else who
historically their family has been
defined as Jewish for let's say five
hundred years who happens to bump into
me on the street of New York City and we
have started a conversation say oh
you're Jewish I'm Jewish too um by the
way religiously I'm not part of the
Jewish faith we just mean the ethnic
category and that that kind of thing
does happen to me from time to time in
Victoria just before we left Victoria BC
Canada west coast of Canada we me and my
girlfriend both we struck up a
conversation with a guy in a in a coffee
shop and I would have never guessed
based on appearances that he was Jewish
and amusingly he also didn't guess based
on my appearance that I was Jewish I
think I do look pretty stereotypically
Jewish but whatever anyway moving beyond
these kinds of physical resemblances the
idea that when I meet this guy I feel
some kind of deep kinship and
specifically an intellectual kinship
that I think we've inherited the same
intellectual potential that's a very
very tough sell for someone like me
partly just because I have so many
brothers and sisters now I can remember
debating in parallel with people in
Cambodia the saben and Cambodian not in
Laos in Cambodia and Laos both those
countries those countries were just
making the transition from having large
families everyone having large numbers
of brothers and sisters to having you
know smaller numbers of brother and
sisters families having just two or
three kids and in total that demographic
shift was happening while I was there
but there still were the you know
fully grown adults who were walking
around a lot of them came from families
that had like eleven kids and of course
the you know they'd say something to me
like well my parents had 11 kids and
today six of them are alive that kind of
thing was not uncommon at all in
Cambodia and Laos when when I was living
there but I can remember debating with
someone in in Cambodia someone who
believed in astrology so let's be clear
we don't here mean the European
tradition of astrology but an Asian
tradition of interpreting when you were
born under what what year and what
positions the Stars that this tells you
something with a person's intellectual
character their mental attributes and
what we're saying you know do you really
think you have something more in common
with someone he was born with with this
star sign let's put it that way
more with these stars aligned then you
have in common with your own brothers
and sisters and appointed look you have
so many brothers and so many sisters how
much do you have in common and the
person of sight do you know they thought
it but I already knew them well enough
really nothing really this person was
quite alienated from their own family we
were talking in English you know so how
many of her brothers and sisters even
wanted to learn English you know I'm
talking to a Cambodian person who made a
huge effort to get fluent in English and
take on the kind of career she took on
how many share your interests in
research and politics and all the other
things that created this the conditions
for us to have this conversation
obviously and the answer is not at all
so why do you think why are you going to
believe that you have all these things
that come with somebody just on account
of the the position of the Sun or the
position of the stars at the at the
moment they were born and you and you
wouldn't have that income with them if
they'd been born one month earlier or
one month later um whatever the the
scenario will be DNA appeals to a very
natural sort of ego trip in the same way
that astrology does it appeals to a
sense of specialness on the basis of
things that are arbitrary
and things that can be tested and and
falsified you know and there's a there's
a reluctance where people let go of the
ego trip and to let themselves question
tests and falsify those those claims of
those ideas now conversely I have the
situation with my relationship with my
own daughter my daughter has spent very
little time with me since she turned one
year old so during the first year of her
life I was with her all the time but of
course she can't really remember that
most of us don't have a lot of memories
in the first year of our lives and then
after I split up with her mom I've seen
her for just a few weeks here in a few
weeks there on a court-appointed
schedule so the similarities I have to
my own daughter in attitude and I mean
these are not just striking to me but my
mother has also meant my taught her aunt
at various times and it's kind of
amazing and when my daughter was like
two and a half and three years old she
was saying things and behaving in a way
that was shockingly similar to myself
when I was a small child and we all knew
she didn't get these behaviors from
imitating me and she definitely did not
get these behaviors by responding to the
same kinds of circumstances so I mean I
grew up in Toronto Canada I grew up in
Ontario also Ottawa a few plays with
that not worth mentioning I grew up in
Ontario Canada speaking only English
with two parents and bizarre
circumstances and my daughter grew up
with a single mom and her grandmother in
the South of France and she grew up
during those years speaking French and
German and English English in the mix a
totally different school system totally
different culture totally different era
and you have these unbelievable
similarities of character you know
obviously we resemble each other an
appearance of some extent to I can see
the heredity that way
so I mean it's it's very appealing to
want to believe that these these
characteristics are hereditary but you
see the fragility of what this belief is
based on there's nobody else on this
earth I can really have as much in
common with genetically as what I have
in common with those two people
mentioned my own mother and my own
daughter and yet at the same time you
have to be able to appreciate the
alienists the distance the unbridgeable
gulf between you and this other person
the difficulty of feeling that you'll
ever know them that you'll ever
understand them and they'll ever
understand you I'm going to end this
video by directly answering the
challenge that Isaac put to me that ask
yourself put to me summoning up the
context both of my own family experience
this sense of extreme alienation I have
when looking at who my brothers and
sisters are who my own parents are that
I have so little in common with them all
these different examples of how more or
less the same DNA plays out and then the
strange sort of kinship and similarity
that I can see my own daughter given
that personal context and given also the
political context that I've conjured up
to some extent that the world is a
changing place partly because people
have access to DNA tests also even just
computerized databases showing what
their family history based on government
records and that sort of thing people
have access to that personal history as
never before and that's going to have
political ramifications as never before
in that context then is my position what
Isaac would characterize as being a
quote unquote biology denier am i
dogmatically asserting that what people
perceive as intelligence or people
measure as intelligence is completely
non errata Terry or do I believe it's
completely right of Terry or something
in between
well I think it's really important in
this case to answer a question with a
question
that challenges the presupposition of
how substantive and palpable this thing
called intelligence really is what if I
told you that I had a dream last night
I mean a dream in the literal sense of a
kind of hallucinatory visionary
experience while I was sleeping I don't
mean a dream in the sense of a plan or
an aspiration or a career let's just say
I had a dream last night and I tell you
this whole dream and whatever various
surreal things happen in this dream and
then I told you that I'm certain I had
this dream because my father had the
dream before me and my grandfather I had
the dream before that and let's just say
you were plied what what do you what are
you talking about did your father tell
you that I said no did your grandfather
tell you that no no we never talked
about it but had never had any
conversation about this dream I'm just
sure I'm just sure that dreams are
hereditary you would reply and say
that's crazy that's insane
how why how could you leap to this
conclusion well what we're talking about
when we talk about intelligence
especially fully formed intelligence in
adults like myself I'm 40 years old it
is on the one hand something that
resembles dreams it's something that is
produced by Trine's that you have a
dream and you then act on it and pursue
it it's into the realm of such you know
impalpable and fleeting things that rest
in a very uncertain way on such crude
and simple facts of biology now the
counter-argument I've said this many
times before is the extent to which
intelligence really does rely on having
good vision good hearing good health
not being [ __ ] not being mentally
impaired not having an impaired
like dyslexia that prevents you from
developing in a certain way because it
prevents you from reading so I should
say that if a visual impairment also if
you have poor vision then your ability
to read is impaired and it's more effort
for you and so on if you have poor
hearing and it's just harder for you to
listen to a lecture or listen to an
audio book for this reason these are all
things that are gonna constrain and
direct the development of your
intelligence the same way they will
constrain and direct your ability to
drive a car now if my daughter has a
dream that she can get ahead in women's
wrestling as a sport that will lead her
if she pursues this dream to develop her
mental and physical capacities in a
whole different direction and she would
probably end up being the type of
teenager and the type of adult that has
relatively little in common with me the
dreams that interested me the dreams
that I took inspiration from whether in
the sense of a literal dream or things I
encountered in the real world when I was
awake that I fastened on to and thought
about or fantasized about or that I
aspired to imitate or learn from those
things shaped the development of my
intelligence and they became what other
people now perceive as my intelligence
and by the same token I never learned to
drive a car I never learned to play any
musical instrument and if the example of
wanting to become a wrestler say women's
Olympic wrestling if that's a little bit
too hard for you guys to visualize just
imagine how different my whole life
would be if I had learned a musical
instrument and I let's not say I was a
rock star or terribly famous but if I
had just learned to play the guitar and
I'd played in a local band in downtown
Toronto the way that would have shaped
my teenage years and my college years
and my development it would have changed
where I was spending time what I was
reading
probably just wouldn't have been read
books it would have changed the women I
was sleeping with and hold my sexual and
social development it probably would
have involved me in drugs and alcohol in
a different way or for a different
length of time my youth and my
development into adulthood all would
have been unbelievably different if I
had learned to play guitar and I don't
even mean that I became a successful
guitarist well I knew other kids when I
was a teenager if I just started doing
kind of open mic nights and battle of
the bands and small local gigs if I
started doing shows that a hundred
people attended five hundred people
attended which in downtown Toronto that
time was quite easy to do it's quite a
lively local scene for four gigs on a on
a small scale that way and of course if
you got up to the level of doing an
audience of 5,000 or actually making
money out of it then your life would
change immeasurably in those directions
for those reasons so what we talked
about with intelligence whether you're
looking at the final product or the
first impulses that lead you to that
final product is something so evanescent
it's something so unreal and so
impalpable that's the product of
circumstances and cultural institutions
like whether or not you have access to a
library and what kind of education you
have it's linked to all these things in
such a powerful way one of my brother's
was a guitarist as his career that was
the main thing he did his whole life
from from early teenage years or from
childhood into old age all these guys
are old men now I'm the youngest so
they're all older than me there's no
sense in which I can say that our
genetic kinship is more powerful in
shaping who we were and we've become
then the difference between the fact
that he became deeply engrossed in the
guitar and that led to certain kinds of
women he pursued and certain kinds of
women who pursued him and a certain
lifestyle and you know all these things
all the things bundled up with being
guitarist from I can remember seeing him
when he wake up in the morning and the
first thing he'd do before he ate
breakfast was get at his guitar and
start playing his guitar you know
obviously this was decades and decades
and it was his career but still the
fundamental discipline that guitar
brought to his life and from my
perspective also the fundamental lack of
discipline that he was someone who never
developed an interest in political
reality there's a profound shaping
influence on his life you know from
childhood through adulthood there's no
way I can look at the DNA we have in
common as being more powerful and more
important in shaping who he became then
that choice he made to play guitar and
the series of choices I made some of
which I can remember it's very clear
indistinct choices and some of which are
wrapped up in all kinds of contradictory
emotions for why I was drawn to care
about certain things and drawn to read
about certain things and develop myself
in a different way
so in this sense yeah I can spend time
with my daughter and I can be shocked at
how much we have in common and again the
time we spend together is so little due
to this lousy Court decision in France
but whatever and you know on the other
hand I can look at my own parents my own
brothers and sisters and see how little
we have in common
and that allows me a lens to challenge
or it leads me it incentivized me to
challenge what so many people today seem
to feel is a very compelling argument in
favor of racism in favor of scientistic
racism specifically in favor of the
theory that the progress of history for
example Europe's
domination over Africa in the colonial
period
Europe's genocide in North America and
South America
not to mention Australia another one
genocide Olympia lism that this can in
some to some extent be morally justified
explained and even valorized
as an innate at hereditary difference
produced by unequal levels of
of IQ unequal levels of genetic
intelligence so these things may be easy
to believe in and they may be appealing
for people to believe in and it's in a
sense much more humbling or genuinely
even humiliating to look at yourself and
look at your brother
and realize hey the fact that you
watched music videos on MTV the fact
that you listened to some albums and LP
and you decided you wanted to be like
that guy you wanted to be like that
guitarist you wanted to live that life
and you were gonna work so hard I
remember my brother he didn't have a
teacher he didn't have lessons or
anything he taught himself how to play
the guitar that you were gonna go to the
library and get those books and sit down
next to the radio and practice and try
to do the same guitar lines from that
song you had that vision you had that
dream and you poured your talent into it
that that's really determined you know
the kind of man you are and what we now
perceive as intelligence and the fact
that I didn't or that I found that
repulsive that I that I moved away from
that the the sense that everything we
value as intelligence may rise and fall
with something so seemingly trivial
something so shallow something that's
even less palpable than Europe than your
bloodline that's maybe quite a scary
thing to realize and maybe if we took it
seriously it would inspire all of us to
not waste our time playing video games
or not waste our time doing downhill
skiing or maybe even not waste their
time playing guitar or listening to
music but would realize we'd realized
the extent to which these choices and
how we discipline ourselves and what we
do with our minds the dreams we have and
how we respond to them how we adopt a
type of discipline or lifestyle in
response to our dreams in response to
things we take inspiration from that
that is much much more powerful than the
blood that when we're born happens to be
flowing in our veins
Danton
[Music]